Let's write our own filter, because as
much as I don't mind too much boilerplate,
if I can reduce it in a way
that Developers like and
are really useful to developers
then I'm gonna do that.
Let's take this piece of code here.
First things first, I'm gonna go ahead and
I am going to close this folder and
I'm gonna open up the next folder here,
which is middleware-and-filters-3-D,
perfect.
And I'm gonna look specifically at
this validate async method, right?
And we're gonna look at it where it's used
inside of our employee controller here.
I'm gonna scroll down to my post request,
my create employee, and
I'm gonna see that,
I'm gonna repeat this code quite a bit.
You'll remember that if you're using
the built in stuff for ASP.NET Core, and
you're using their built-in validators,
if you have the API controller
attribute on top of your controller,
like we do here.
Right there in our base class, that it
will automatically do validation for you.
Well, we don't have that option
because we're using async validation.
So there's no way that we're using
fluent validation and async validation.
So there's no way for ASP.NET Core to know
that we have something to validate, so
we have to do it manually.
Cuz it's better than not doing it at all,
that's for sure.
But we can get around
that by adding a filter,
we can actually take it after
that model has been bound.
We can actually figure out what the model
is, what the type of it is at runtime, and
then see if we can validate that object.
We want to add in this
fluent validation filter.
Let's see, I'm actually going to,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Yeah,
we'll add it, and we'll go ahead and
copy this in like so, and
then we're gonna go
through this line by line.
This is actually a fairly complex file,
I really wanna demonstrate
the functionality.
It's not so important that we know
everything that this thing is doing, but
only that it's available to us.
cs, so I'm gonna paste that in here.
I'm gonna start importing
things like that.
I'm gonna import that,
I'm gonna import FluentValidation.Results.
And I am going to import FluentValidation.
And a thing called ProblemDetailsFactory,
which we will touch on.
And so what this is actually doing, this
filter is actually spinning through all
of the parameters that we've
specified on our controller method.
And it's determining, do any of these
parameters match an existing validator?
It's using reflection to determine to say,
this is the shape of that IValidator type,
and do we have one in our dependency
injection pipeline that we can use to
actually validate this incoming object?
Again, it's not super important that,
I don't expect anybody here to say, wow,
okay, that's a lot of stuff.
Cuz this is a lot,
this is rather advanced programming.
But this is where reflection and
the power of reflection,
as I explained in my
previous course comes in.
We can do things at runtime and
create repeatable patterns such that
we can add additional behaviors and
do different things, even if we
don't know the type ahead of time.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Let me see
validationResults.AddToModelState, yes,
I know why that's not showing up,
we'll go there in a second.
Okay, so I don't wanna necessarily,
we'll step through this here in a second.
I do wanna point out that
this thing is missing, and
that is because we need one new get
package, which is, do Ctrl + P.
And open up Nuget, and then we are going
to FluentValidation.AspNetCore,
go ahead and add that.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And then we'll
use that and then we'll import it.
That's just an extension method that
takes our validation result and
adds it to our existing model state which
is available inside of this context.
One last thing to actually use the filter
is that in our AddController method call,
we actually have to say, hey,
make sure that this filter is
part of all of our controllers.
So without this, ASP.Net Core just
won't use it, they just see a class.
It just sees a class as
part of the solution, and
it doesn't do anything with it, so we do
need to instruct ASP.Net Core to use it.
So we're gonna go to our program file,
we're gonna go down here.
We're gonna replace our AddControllers
method here with this one,
that's gonna add our
FluentValidationFilter.
And now we're saying, again,
it's like micro middleware, right?
So we're taking it and we're saying,
hey, we've gotten to the controller but
before that controller executes,
we're gonna send it through this filter.
So you can do it actually one of two ways,
you can send it before the controller
actually gets the request to actually
handle it, or you could do it after.
You can modify the aspects of that
response after the controller's done
executing it.
And you can see that here because
we have OnActionExecution and
OnActionExecuted, so there we go.
So we're gonna play this, debug, boom.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So
I'm gonna go ahead and hit that, and
you're gonna see that now that
we've established that our filter.
I'm gonna move this out of the way,
that our filter is actually part of
our controller,
we can actually see that it is executing.
So we're gonna take a little bit and just
take a look at some of these objects and
go through.
Again, I don't expect you to memorize it.
The point is, just know that this
is available, because this may
be useful in a probably will be further
down the line as in your .Net and
your ASP.Net Core journey.
So I wanna call out this
parameters thing specifically,
which is this parameter descriptor.
And you see this name is employeeRequest,
which is exactly the name
of our variable here.
So, because it's already gotten to
ASP.Net Core's web API handlers,
it knows that this is something that
should be in the incoming request.
It's actually already gone through
the trouble of binding it for us too.
So if we go here and spin through, we
can see that if we try to get the value,
we can actually see that we get
our CreateEmployeeRequest object.
We can then read the type of
that object at runtime and
then use reflection to make
a reference to that generic type.
So you go here validatorType, and
you can see our validatorType is
IValidator of CreateEmployeeRequest.
And then you can go through and
then ask the dependency injection system,
does this thing exist,
does this validator exist?
And if so, I would like to use it.
And that's when you would go through and
do the logic that you would expect, which
is that if validation result is valid,
you use the AddToModelState to just add it
to the modelState context again using
the FluentValidation ASP.Net Core package.
And then I think
the strangest part of this,
all of it feels pretty straightforward
except for this ProblemDetailsFactory.
This is actually an abstraction
that ASP.Net Core uses for
some reason to actually create
the validation problem details object,
this is just basically a factory class for
creating those.
So we have to use those,
because it's defined in some other
part of ASP.Net Core for us.
And that's when we can set
the result of our request,
which is normally if we don't have this
set, then it would just be handled.
But at that point, we can set
it to BadObjecRequestResult, and
you can see that we get
our 400 bad request.
Now I don't believe I removed
this validation logic here,
let's see, what are you complaining about?
We'll go ahead and kill that by,
it's saying that we don't have
anything async await in here.
We can await on a already CompletedTask
in order to kill that, or
we could simply convert
this to a non-async method.
I'm just gonna take the little bit of
a Kluge code here and just let it do that.
But to just show you that,
we don't call validate async anymore, but
we still get our validation
problem details.
You can see that we send it and we still
get our validation problem details.
And because we were smart,
we thought ahead of time, and
we wanted to write some tests,
we're gonna go ahead and run our tests.
We're gonna see that
everything works just fine.
Now, we're gonna go ahead and
do something else,
which is we're gonna add our
validator to our PUT endpoint.
At this point ignored our PUT endpoint.
But our PUT endpoint is
doing a mutation of its own,
which is it is changing
aspects of our system.
And we do wanna validate that
those things are happening.
We wanna validate that object is valid
before we alter a part of our system.
So we're gonna create a slightly
more complex validator.
I'm gonna copy it here, open this up,
and I'm just gonna put it under my
updateEmployeeRequest class, just reduce
the number of files that we have,
and then I'm gonna close this so
we can look at this.
I'm gonna do an import,
import FluidValidation, command.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And import that
and let's talk about what this is doing.
First of all,
we've defined our AbstractValidator
here of an updateEmployeeRequest and
we've given it a little bit of context,
a little bit of things that it needs.
We wanna be able to get the Http context,
we'll show you why in here a second.
So this HttpContextAccessor object
is an object that you can use.
It's part of the dependency injection
system to downstream in another service,
get access to the Http context,
which is really critical.
Multiple because we need to read
values from that Http context,
I'll show you what that
looks like here in a second.
And then, of course, we have our
repository object that we need to get.
And we have some very custom,
very interesting logic right here.
Which is that for address,
we wanna say that this must not be empty
if it's already set on an employee.
In other words, if the employee
object already has an address,
then we wanna make sure that
nobody can remove that address.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Why did we
need the Http context to do this?
Well, we actually needed it so
we could read the Routevalue
of the Id from the request.
The validator doesn't have direct access
to say, we're updating employee one, two,
three, four.
Thus, we give it
the httpContext in order to say,
in order to get access to the request, and
then get that Id out of that Routevalue.
So we know what the employee Id is,
and that's relevant,
because we need to reach into
our employee repository.
We need to GetById,
we need to get that employee and then say,
if the employee address does not equal
null and the string IsNotNullOrWhiteSpace,
then we need to return false,
otherwise, return true.
And this is a little bit
of a different syntax.
I think we saw it a little bit earlier,
but
this is establishing a validation rule for
our address one field.
Where we say, must
(NotBeEmptyIfItIsSetOnAnEmployeeAlreadyAs-
ync).
Which in a fluent API,
you typically try to write it as close to
English as you possibly can and
then say with message.
Address1 must not be empty and you
could even be more specific, an address
was already set on the employee,
you make it whatever message you want.
So this is a very custom
piece of behavior.
And believe me when I say this,
example might look maybe a bit strange.
I mean, Ken you should be able
to zero out an address or
null out an address if it already exists.
Maybe, but you will use things like
this a ton as you're building APIs and
you're validating them.
If we try to run our tests,
they will break.
And the reason that they will break
is that, well, I'll show you.
If we did everything correctly we should
see that, yep we have a problem, which
is that the dependency injection system
cannot find our HttpContextAccessor.
That's because we need to register
it manually, which is fine.
I actually think that you used to
have to register it manually, and
then Microsoft made it so
you didn't have to register it.
And then they made it so you had to
register it again, not sure why,
I think that's how it went.
AddHttpContextAccessor.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach:
pContextAccessor, hit Tab, ().
And that goes through, and it actually
adds in our IHttpContextAccessor.
So we can get access to our HTTP context.
So we can get the Id from
the incoming request, so
we can know what employee
they're trying to modify.
So that we can validate
our incoming object.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So boom,
boom, now we rerun our tests.
Ctrl + Shift +tilde dotnet test,
we get everything passing,
which is exactly what we want, okay.
Lastly, we can update our
tests to say that yes,
when address is set,
we can have a test out there that says,
if the address on that employee is set,
if we wanted to test that behavior.
Because it's really mission critical,
cuz again, limited time and resources,
we can't test every single thing.
We do wanna test this, so
we say, for this employee,
we'll say employeeId, what does this say?
Doesn't exist, all right,
we'll just say 1, invalidEmployee.
And we'll say, if this employee already
has an address that we want to make sure
that we're getting a bad request back.
Let me just make sure,
because of the way we've set up our repo,
we should see that our test will fail.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
then once we add in our address,
we've already defined an address, and
we don't wanna be able to zero it out,
still failing, let's see.
And the reason is, is we already
have some employees in our repo.
So we actually need to capture this
employee's employeeId, which we will do.
Go create a new variable
employee capture it here.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
then we will say employeeIdForAddressTest,
will get repo.GetAll().First().Id.
And then we will create
this private field here,
and then we will copy it down here,
add it here.
And now we should see because we already
have an address on our employee.
[LAUGH] That's the way it goes sometimes.
I didn't copy this other request,
which actually does have a valid.
Okay, cut all that.
It's because this test was failing, not
this test, okay, that makes total sense.
So we'll copy these here,
we'll hit Tab + Over.
We'll see that we make our valid PUT
request valid by making sure that we add
our address1 here, 123 Main St. to make
sure that this becomes a valid request.
We will run all of our tests again,
and now we see that they pass.